# Bismuth 4.2.9. Release

After the successful PoW fork of xx/xx/xx, it was about time to release a cleaned up, post fork version of the Bismuth node and wallet.  
That's an opportunity to chat with the architects and dev of the Bismuth project to learn more about what is inside.
Hclivess (Founder, core dev)  and EggdraSyl (core dev) are here to explain.

_Q: Hclivess, what is your general stance over Hard forks?_


_Q: What is a clean up post fork release?_

Egg: The fork generally introduce switching rules and 2 versions of the code: what is valid before the fork, and what is valid after.  
this means extraneous, conditional code.  
Once the fork is over, it's good practice to remove dead code and conditions that will no more be triggered.  


_Q: But this release also includes new features, why?_

Egg: Well, we can't release the clean up version just after the fork. Exchanges and users just have updated, you want to let them rest a bit.  
Also, we devs do continue to work on new features in the mean time.  
We try not to introduce too big changes so we take fewer risks, so this release is mainly a big fixes and incremental changes rather than some huge feature introduction.

_Q: One of the features is peers related. Can you explain a bit?_

Hclivess:

_Q: What else as for features?_

Egg: "stop" command, code doc, new commands targetting exchanges, regtest mode, mempool fine tuning

_Q: Incremental changes you said? Can you elaborate, I guess regtest and new commands are related to the new exchange listing the team advertised?_

Egg: Indeed.  
The stop command was long missing. The only way to stop a node was killing it, and if you had bad luck, like stopping it at the wrong time, you ended up with a corrupted DB. This was not an easy issue to solve, since the node uses several threads at once, doing different tasks.  
It now works well, and a `python3 command.py stop` asks the node to close nicely.

Other command "addlistsince" target exchanges, it allows to poll the chain with potential new tx since the last checkpoint.  
(note that node plugins, a Bismuth strong point, may be even more efficient for that task).

Regtest is something brand new. We already had a working testnet that proved to be invaluable in several occasions (you can't unit test everything, like in real world. a testnet is way closer to what happens for real).  
Regtest allow to run a fake node, that does not even connect to others, and is able to generate blocks at will.  
You start with an empty chain, can send new tx, then "mine" blocks instantly and check they are being embedded.  
This allows external devs - especially exchanges - to do unit tests easily and is a great addition to Bismuth.  
**regtest doc**

_Q: The mempool thing?_

Egg: Mempool tuning, yep.  
The mempool is a temporary storage area where nodes keep newest transactions to embed and propagate over the network.  
Once a transaction goes into a block, it is removed from the mempool.  
The mempool sync is an important mechanism, and pretty tricky to do well *and* in an efficient manner. You just can't send all your transactions to everyone for instance: that would be a huge waste of bandwith and cpu. So several voodoo mechanisms are used to sync new transactions but avoid to send told tx we already sent, or tx the peer has, limit transaction spam and so on...  
Some settings were slightly off, and resulted in some transactions being broadcasted too slowly over the net.  
The current update should fix that once enough nodes will have updated. Say goodby to occasionally slow transactions!

_Q: Also, I saw there were some wallet related commits by Egg?_

Egg: Yep. The GUI light wallet is usually not my competence, but it needed a few tweaks to support the new API we rolled out.  
Let me explain:  
Until then, either the wallet was connected to your local node (that, it still can), or was used as a "light wallet".  
That is, it does *not* need any node or local chain, it just connects to an online wallet server, in a safe way: it never sends your private key for instance.  
To achieve that, the wallet needed a list of possible servers.

It becomes more complicated when that list can evolve: one server can be down, or have too much clients, or we can add new servers.  
How to handle that?  
The wallet was benchmarking the known servers - that took some time - but new servers required an update from the users.  
There ought to be a simpler solution.  
This became even more critical with the added post-fork load. More users, more wallets: existing servers were overloaded.

Enters the API. A single API server tests all known wallet servers, and provides a qualified list of all active, up to date, wallet servers with their current load.  
Now, the wallet only is a request away of getting up to date info.  
The team adds a server, it appears in the list, no action from the user.

With this API (**url**), users will now experience a faster wallet, and we are able to scale up or down at will.  
https://twitter.com/EggPoolNet/status/1057560738108186624

I also did a few small changes, UX related.

_Q: Care to explain?_

Egg: Wallet showed the version of the node it's connected to, but not its own version.  
The wallet's own version is now visible on the title bar.  
The "encrypt wallet" function was well hidden on the 'send' tab, it's been duplicated to the "wallet" drop down menu.  
Small easy tweaks that will save some recurrent support questions

 
