# BISMUTH Team Progress Report

15 Feb 2019 - 15 March 2019

## Foreword
	
Since the wording of this report seemed to confuse some users, let be clear: this is not an achievement report.  
It's a synthetic list of tasks to team worked on over the said period of time.
Some things went through, some "just" were worked on and will still need more work to be completed. In both case, it's progress and the goal is to shred some light on the internals of the team work.

Now, for the detailled report:

## Core DEV

*Node:*
- Adjustments for people working with the code to have better natural understanding of the code
- Removing an issue where node would disconnect valid connections and slow down the syncing process (bizzzy)
- API improvements
- Added a tool to safely stop the node to the installer
- Simplified code after updates

*Tornado Wallet*
- Definition of an internal testing plan so the team can extensively test the wallet on several platforms and browsers before releases.
- Much testing

*Hypernodes:*

*Other:*
- Update of some nogui scripts

## BIS Projects DEV


## Partnerships and contract dev


## Research & ongoing DEV


## Content

- Work on official whitepaper writing
- How to deposit $BIS on QTrade quide
- Bismuth intro video

## Marketing


## Exchanges

- 
- On going research, reach out, evaluation

## Other

# Roadmap evolution

As you can see from this report, comparing with the roadmap, short term goals have been worked on:

- Run bounty projects, improve dev doc, attract new devs on side projects.
- Better support for tokens and multiaddresses in wallets  
  (Tornado wallet now supports multiaddresses)
- Push the new gen Tornado wallet out of beta
- Add features and themes to the new gen Tornado wallet  
  (features added, themes in the works by external devs)
- Develop partnerships around Hypernode hosting - Still ongoing
- Ever going effort to get listed on more - reliable - exchanges.
- Rewrite of core code to ease maintenance and external devs adoption  
  Significant progress on the core code
- Optimization of sql requests and DB access  
  Significant progress on the core code, still ongoing, plus upcoming rewrite.
  
  
Mid term items also have been worked on at various levels:

- Hack with Bis repo and tutorials
- Work on Whitepaper
- Website reorg
